# QuantumCircuit

The goal of this Python Package is to create an interface file containing a quantum circuit for the [Quantum Simulation Framework (qsfw)](https://codeberg.org/jonasjelonek/qsfw) of [@jonasjelonek](https://codeberg.org/jonasjelonek).

<br>

The current version of the package includes the following functions:
* Create one or more quantum circuits with any number of qubits and initial states.
* Add any number of gates from the qsfw to the circuit.
* Currently, the (inverse) Quantum Fourier Transform (QFT) can be added to the circuit as an algorithm.
* Save the assembled circuit including comments in an interface file for the qsfw.

<br>

The package can be used in two different ways:
* It can be imported resp. integrated directly into a Python script. All the functions mentioned above are available here.
* On the other hand, it can be executed directly via the command line. However, only one algorithm can be applied to a circuit in this case.

<br>

## Import into a Python script

After importing the package into the Python script, an object of the <code>QuantumCircuit</code> class can be created to build the quantum circuit.<br>
When the various methods of the class are called, the code for the qsfw is generated and cached in the object so that it can finally be written to the interface file.

A documentation of the <code>QuantumCircuit</code> API generated by the Python Package [sphinx](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/) can be found [here](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/tk154/QuantumCircuit/blob/main/docs/_build/html/index.html).

This repository contains an [example Python script](https://github.com/tk154/QuantumCircuit/blob/main/example.py) that applies QFT to a quantum circuit with three qubits and writes the corresponding code for the qsfw to the interface file <code>qft.ps</code>.

<br>

## Invocation via the command line

If the user calls the package via the command line, a circuit is created from the passed qubits, the passed algorithm is applied and all qubits are finally measured. As long as the user is in the same folder as the package, it can be executed on the command line as follows:
<pre>$ python3 -m QuantumCircuit &lt;Algorithm&gt; &lt;Initial Qubits&gt;</pre>

<br>

The following options are currently possible for the <code>&lt;Algorithm&gt;</code> argument:

| Argument | Algorithm                         |
| :------: | --------------------------------- |
| qft      | Quantum Fourier Transform         |
| iqft     | Inverse Quantum Fourier Transform |

<br>

An arbitrarily large sequence of zeros or ones is possible for <code>&lt;Initial Qubits&gt;</code>, which are interpreted as the initial values for the qubits in the circuit. The first bit specifies (on the left-hand side) corresponds to the most-significant bit.

An example of how an inverse QFT circuit can be generated is shown below:
<pre>$ python3 -m QuantumCircuit iqft 110</pre>

<br>

The generated output is written to stdout. However, as an interface file should actually be created for the qsfw, the redirect operator <code>></code> can be used to redirect or write the standard output to a file.
<pre>$ python3 -m QuantumCircuit iqft 110 > iqft.qs</pre>
